---
title : 'What I used to Created My Portfolio Website '
date : '06-08-2023'
desc : 'In this blog blog I am sharing how I create my personal website'
img : 'portfolio-blog.webp'
---

# Technologies I used to Created My Portfolio Website: A Journey with Next.js, Tailwind CSS, and More!
___

Hey there! Welcome to my blog, where I'll take you on a journey through the creation of my very own portfolio website. If you're looking to build your own site or just curious about the technologies I used,  I'll be sharing my experiences in a conversational tone, so let's dive right in!


In this website, I am utilizing a combination of Next.js, MongoDB, and Tailwind CSS for development and design.

## Next.js

I chose Next.js for its exceptional development experience and time-saving benefits compared to other options. The API routes in Next.js are particularly appealing.

## Tailwind CSS

Tailwind CSS powers the design of this website. Its utility classes streamline styling, ensuring a consistent and visually appealing user interface.

## MongoDB

For data storage, I've turned to MongoDB, utilizing the power of Mongoose to establish a connection.

## Axios

Axios provides a feature-rich, flexible, and user-friendly API for managing HTTP requests. I rely on it to handle requests when the contact form is submitted.

## validator.js

Specifically, I use it to validate email addresses submitted through the contact form. Validator simplifies the process of ensuring that the email addresses provided are in the correct format.

## Blogging Approach

I've adopted a markdown-based approach for writing blogs. While you might wonder about the choice not to use a database, let me clarify. On this site, I exclusively post blogs detailing my projects, offering insights into their creation. Should the need for numerous blogs arise in the future, transitioning to a database is a possibility.

## Gray-matter

Gray Matter, a popular JavaScript library, proves invaluable for working with front matter in Markdown files. It efficiently handles metadata management for my blogs.

## Remark

Remark is a key player in transforming Markdown content. It excels in parsing, modification, and transformation tasks. Through Remark, I parse my Markdown content into an abstract syntax tree (AST).

## Remark-html

The Remark-html library seamlessly converts the abstract syntax tree (AST) generated by Remark into HTML output, playing a vital role in transforming blogs into HTML.

## Additional Packages

In addition to the core stack, I've integrated several useful packages:
- `react-hot-toast`
- `react-icons`
- `react-redux`
- `react-top-loading-bar`

## Thank You

Thank you for taking the time to read about the technologies and tools powering this website.
